>> Scott Moss: But yeah so ultimately,
controllers are gonna implement the logic
that interacts with our database
models, right.
So we created those models.
Where do we use them?
We use them in the controllers.
So, that's basically
how they're gonna work.
The sweet thing about REST and
how Express gives us tools for
route matching and verbs.
And then how Mongo kinda ties into
a lot of this stuff too, is that
we can actually generalize our controllers
to work for many different models.
If you go look at the routes that we had,
>> Scott Moss: Our router,
already have it right here.
So let me just get rid of this controller.
>> Scott Moss: If we go
look at these routes here.
>> Scott Moss: We kind of generalized
these to just have two routes, so
it's / and then /id.
And they just have different verb
combinations, so we generalize that.
And that's gonna be the same no matter
which resource we're on, right.
If I go to list router,
it's exactly the same thing.
If I go to the user model,
this one's going to be different.
Because user has different permissions and
stuff, but there's some similarities here.
The reason user is different
is because you sign up,
signing up and creating a new
item are two different things.
Signing up as an user is not as
simple as like doing CRUD user,
like creating a user.
Normally when you create a user,
I don't create a user for somebody else.
They sign themselves up,
so they're not a user yet.
So I already perform CRUD, so
that's why it's a little
special with users and stuff.
But for most resource based stuff in our
database, it's mostly the same thing.
So because of that, that similarity we can
actually generalize our controllers too.
They're all doing the same thing.
For instance, if a list has a controller
to get one list by an ID, then
that logic would be exactly the same as an
item controller getting one item by an ID.
The only difference is at the model.
One's a list model,
the other one's an item model.
But because Mongoose makes all
the models exactly the same,
as far as the methods you can use on them.
Then we can just generalize the
controllers and just create one controller
for every single CRUD action then just
pass in the model and then we are done.
Technically that's your work if
you follow REST exactly to T.
Where that gets crazy is when you
got to do special things like,
we got to remove the password from
the user or we had to populate this field.
But then you're not doing REST,
that's where it gets blurry.
So for ultimate REST, yeah, we can
generalize the controllers to work for
everything.
And that's actually what
we're gonna be doing next.
Anybody not understand me when I said what
I just said, generalize our controllers?
I think I was talking too fast.
But basically, what I was saying is,
instead of writing a controller for
every single route, for
every single resource.
We'll just write one controller for
getOne, one controller for createOne,
one controller for updateOne,
one controller for removeOne, and
one controller for getMany.
And then we'll pass a model
to that controller and
it'll just do the same code for
every single model.
Cuz it's very generic,
it's very general, does the same
thing just on a different model.
Doesn't need to know about fields,
doesn't need to know about schemas.
It just does the same thing
on every single model.
And that's exactly how Ruby on Rails
would have generated routes for
you if you were using it back when they
were coming out with the res stuff.